# Bayesian-DM-Regression-Model-for-Integrative-Analysis-of-Clinical-and-Single-Cell-Data

The abundance of certain cell types can be strikingly different in patients with various disease states. In addition to the association between cell-type abundance and phenotypes, recent scientific advancements provide mounting evidence that other clinical variables such as age, gender, and lifestyle habits, can all modulate the abundance of certain cell types. However, current methods for integrating cell-type abundance data and other covariates remain insufficient. In this study, we generated cell-type abundance data from single cell data, and integrated clinical variables with the cell-type abundance data by introducing a hierarchical Bayesian Dirichlet-Multinomial regression framework to reveal their relationships. Our model demonstrates strong performance with simulated data. Furthermore, we successfully uncovered significant relationships between certain cell types and some clinical variables in the study of three real datasets, providing insights into how cells and clinical features are interacted with each other. Overall, we propose a Bayesian regression model that elucidates the interplay between cell-type abundance and clinical covariates, which could potentially be useful for clinical intervention in various diseases.

## Introduction
This is a repo for the paper "Bayesian Dirichlet-Multinomial Regression Model for Integrative Analysis of Clinical and Single Cell Data". The repo contains the code for the simulation study and the real data analysis. The code for the simulation study is in the folder "simulation", and the code for the real data analysis is in the folder "real_data_analysis". The code for the real data analysis is further divided into three sub-folders, each of which contains the code for one real dataset. The code for the real data analysis is written in R, and the code for the simulation study is written in Python.